hello Los Angeles County Animal Control
Officer Monte Lopez is having a busy day
as usual he needs the shelter with 18
calls for assistance but I can't
complain like I said these guys are
leaving with 30 or 40 now he left with a
team so the workload means officer Lopez
has to determine what's important in his
area of East LA and el hombre if you
figure these people call them in they
took the time to call him an order can
find them in their property so that's a
priority officer Lopez works fast after
all he's been at his job for 20 years
before three hours go by he's caught
four possums investigated for animal
cruelty and cleaned up for dead animals
a big the other dead animal of that
album so you switch soon after he
receives word that someone has a dog at
their property in East LA he finds this
email to all upside down on some rice
and beans after capture here Lopez loads
her into the truck and takes her to the
animal shelter in Downey there she's
assigned a number photo craft checked
for microchips vaccinated and brought to
her new home cage number five 21 she
arrives here there are three possible
options for her she's gonna be picked up
by our original owner adopted or
euthanized
no really get to her - there could doubt
John Embry is the general manager of the
downey animal shelter animals brought
here are not adopted at a high rate
probably around 35 3% right now getting
adopted
and that's only out of animals deemed
adoptable an animal at an LA County
Shelter has to be held for five days
minimum
before Embry and his staff can take any
action if what's an animal's dean
deductible stays healthy during that
time our team will try to give it at
least 30 days that 30 days often isn't
enough LA Animal Services reported the
15,000 dogs and cats were euthanized in
city shelters last year but even with
new spaying and neutering laws in LA the
problem isn't going away anytime soon a
good five years maybe from now we'll see
a
a big reduction in animals it's doesn't
be a long time until then officer Lopez
will do his part to try and keep the
streets clean Alex Goldsmith kcal 9